What does MTD use for its calculations?

Modeling the Draw utilizes historical cutoff numbers from previous Draws, as reported by Stanford R & DE. For the purposes 
of the calculator, statistics from the years 2014-2018 are taken into consideration. Many academic theme, Greek, and all-frosh 
residences are excluded from this dataset, and cannot be inputted into the calculator for an accurate reading.

How does MTD calculate my chances?

Modeling the Draw uses linear regression on historical cut-off numbers in order to determine the trend of popularity of various
residences that partake in the 2019 Draw. Aside from the desired residence, several other factors – such as sex, desired type of room, 
the number of people applying in your group, and tier number – impact your chances of drawing into the residence.

In the case of split groups – where some but not all students with a certain cut-off number could make it into a particular residence 
– the calculator assumes that you are able to make the cut-off. Additionally, sophomore priority for particular residences and housing 
types – such as Toyon and FroSoCo – are not considered for the purposes of this calculator.

What inputs does the calculator take, and what do they mean?

The first input, sex, will allow the calculator to consider either the men’s or women’s cut-off numbers, and which correspond to the 
inputs “male” or “female”; for any other input, the calculator will not consider sex in its calculation.

The second input, room type, refers to the type of room that you’d like to be placed in, and recognizes inputs such as “1 room single,” 
“2 room double,” and “1 room triple.” Please note that not all residences have your desired room type; inputting an invalid room type 
for a residence will not lead to an accurate calculation. Additionally, for apartment complexes such as Mirrielees, you may request 
either a “2 bedroom apartment,” “3 bedroom apartment,” “4 bedroom apartment,” or “substance free housing.” Similarly, you should request 
either a “4-person” or “6-person” suite for GovCo’s Suites, and either a “standard room” or “premier room” for Row residences. If you’re 
considering preassigning to a cross cultural theme house, you must input “ETHNIC” as the room type. Lastly, if you have no preference 
for the room type, input “Any.”

The third input, residence, refers to the residence that you’re considering drawing into. You may input a particular residence 
(“Branner”), a residence hall (“Gerhard Casper”), a part of campus (“West Campus”), or any dorm (“Dorm”).

The fourth input, tier number, will take either 1, 2, or 3 as input, and refer to the tier level that you are selecting. Other inputs 
are not recognized by the calculator.

The last input, apply type, refers to the number of people applying in your group. Recognized inputs include “individual,” “group of 2,”
“group of 3,” or “group or 4.” Since our calculator calculates your chances for the 2019 draw, groups of 5 or greater or not recognized.

What does the outputted percentage mean?

The percentage that the Modeling the Draw calculator outputs is our estimate of your chances of drawing into the residence and room 
type that you’re applying for, based on data from previous years. If you receive the output “>99%,” it’s likely that your tier level 
exceeds the historical cut-off numbers. If you receive the output “<0.1%,” it’s likely that your tier level is lower than the 
historical cut-off numbers.

Contact lilyzhou@stanford.edu for further inquiries.
